# Deep Learning in Music
This a GitHub repository containing the code produced throughout the development of my final year Dissertation at Heriot-Watt University.
## About
This project is grounded on the understanding of music as a language, with the comprehension of the unbreakable duality between music and language as its main pillar. 
Many efforts have been dedicated to exploring, creating, processing and analysing music within the Computer Science discipline. Yet, whilst the development of this research has advance massively in the last half century, it seems much has been guided by the interests of the music industry, and the fundamental connection between language and music has been fading away and has tended to be overlooked. With the intention of recuperating this fundamental connection, this research aims to apply state-of-the-art computational neural network architectures, commonly applied to text-generation tasks, to the complexity of music. This implies adopting a pioneering approach to give this application the ability to accurately compose music that closely resembles that composed by a human, based on specified parameters and our given dataset. Some of these parameters include our own interpretation of each song in our dataset and more specifically, our interpretation of the moods that each of them evokes in us when we listen to them. To this aim, this study proposes not only adopting the NLP approach, but also to progress beyond theoretical reflections towards a practical application of the connection between music and language by producing, through training, a model able to generate songs that fit into the genre of jazz, with its critical improvisation element.
## Specifications
All the necessary libraries can be found in the requirements.txt file. Additionally, all the code is contained within the Deep_Learning_in_Music.zip file.
